So given this short life,
we could think about jujitsu. We can think about any kind of pursuit.
What do you think makes a great life? Is it the highest
peak of achievement? You know, you think about like an Olympic metal,
the highest level of performance,
or is it the longevity of performance of doing many amazing
things and doing it for a long time?
I think the latter is kind of what we talk about in at least American society.
You know, we want people to be healthy, balanced,
perform well for a long time.
And then there's maybe like the gladiator <laugh> ethic,
which is the highest peak is what defines.
You asked an initial question, which what makes a great life,
but then pointed towards two options.
One of longevity versus other degree of different there's,
there's gotta be a lot more than that shortly. <laugh> um, uh, I mean,
think about, um, first of all, we have to understand from the start,
there's never gonna be an agreed upon set of criteria for this is a great life
from all perspective. Uh, if you look from the perspective of say Maia valley,
then Stalin left a great life. Uh,
he was highly successful at what he did. He started from nothing.
So the degree of difficulty and what he did was extraordinarily high.
He had massive impact upon world history.
He oversaw the defeat of almost all of his major enemies.
He lived to old age and died of natural causes.
So for a much of Ali's point of view, he had a great life.
If you ask a Ukrainian farmer in the 1930s, whether he loved a great life,
you get a very different answer. Um,
so everything's gonna come from what perspective you, you, you begin with this,
you're going to look out at the world with a given point of view and you're
gonna make your judgments. Was this a great life, or was this a terrible life?
Um, <affirmative> going back to your point. You were actually,
I think focusing the question on, on more in terms of, uh,
great single performances versus longevity of performances. Yes. Um,
presumably this isn't really a question about, uh, what makes a great life then,
because there's so much more than that to a great life.
I don't know I'm gonna push back on that.
So I think their parallels are very much closer than you're making them seem.
I think it's, let's compare Stalin.
Stalin is an example of somebody who held power considered by me to be one of
the most powerful men ever. He held power for 30 years.
So that's what I'm referring to longevity.
And then there's a few people I have to,
I wish my knowledge of history was better,
but people who fought a few great battles and they did
not maintain power, but there were.
It's it's contrast say for example, Alexander, the great yes, who died at 33,
um, from probably unnatural causes, um, uh,
had around four to five,
truly defining battles in his life, which, uh,
responsible for the, for the lion share of, of,
of his achievements and burned very bright, but didn't burn long.
Yes. Um, Stalin on the other hand started from nothing quietly.
Methodically worked his way through the revolutionary phase and, uh,
gained increasing amounts of power. And as he said.
Um, went all the way to the end of a, uh, of his career. Um, yeah,
there's, there's definitely something to be said for, for longevity. Um,
but as to which one is greater than the other, you can't give a,
a, a definition or, um, a set of criteria, which will definitively say,
this is it than that. But when you look, ultimately,
we look at Alexandra as great, but in a different way.
And we look at Stalin don't,
I didn't think many people would say Stalin was a great person,
but from the ma Allen point of view, uh, he would say he was,
uh, great also,
but when you think about beautiful creations done by human beings
in the space of say martial arts in the space of sport,
what inspires you? The peak.
Of performance? I, I, I see where you're coming from Lexi it's,
it's a great question. Um, for me, it always comes down to degree of difficulty,
but things are difficult in different ways. Okay. Um,
a single flawless performance in youth
is still a, that wins a gold medal. Let's say for example, um, uh,
NA Kasu won the Olympic gold medal in gymnastics,
the first person ever to get a perfect score. Um,
if she had disappeared after that, we would still remember that as a,
an incredible moment and the degree of difficult to,
to get a perfect score and Olympic gymnastics is just off their charts.
Um, and contrast that with someone who went to four Olympics and got four silver
medals, I mean, they're both incredible achievements. They just different, uh,
the, the attributes that lead to longevity, um, typically tend to,
with the attributes that bring a powerful single performance.
One is all about focus on a part on a particular event. The other is, uh, on,
uh, spreading your resources over time.
Both that present tremendous difficulties. Um, there's no,
to say one is better than the other.